Central Limit Theorem

Mean is the center point All the values lies to the right or left of the mean is called as normal distribution

x - mean divide by standard deviation
when we take a sample of >30
what happens is that the sampling distribution of the mean is same of the population

we get a bell curve
mean of the population is almost same as mean of sample
median will be sample

sd = standard deviation of the population by the sqrt of the sample size of each block

if we add more and more samples, standard deviation will be less and it populates more towards to the mean block.

Assumption is standard error, mean is some value
the sample's mean would be close to the mean of the population
and error reduces = which is the formula i told.


the diff between the actual mean and the sample mean is the error. That is why we refer as standard error.

Given a population, taking sufficient n samples, the mean of the sample is almost of the mean of population, then the graph plotted against it
will be a normal population.

the sample we take, there is a possibility of sample piece being same which was processed, so it has to be replaced.

higher the sample size, standard error is less and getting narrower to the mean.

Nth percentile
states that atleast N% of value less than or equal to this value and (100-N) values

N divide by 100 * number of terms


Using quartile - outliers are removed - box plot
gives us 5 number summary of the dataset

every 25th percentile should be a quartile.

median of set one - 25th percentile is the first quartile

interquartile range - diff between q3 - q1
find outlier using IQR

set a upper and lower limit, below that is an outlier or above that

Lower limit = q1 - 1.5IQR
upper limit = q3 + 1.5IQR

for data cleaning purposes. 5 summary points Lower limit, q1, q2, q3, upper limit. Box plot
for each and every column not for the full dataset.

if in case of standard deviation being close
we can use coefficient of variation

SD divide by mean * 100%

Univariate - one variable
BiVariate - two variables
kind of correlation (relationships between the two variables)

CoVariance
variance = (summ of x - mean)square divide by n sum - x-mean x- mean 

covariance = (sum  of (x - mean)(y - ymean) divide by n

if the covariance is higher, the relationship between them is higher.

covariance value can be between -infinity to +infinity
if on the negative side - negative relationships

Correlation coefficent (its related by a non causatic variable)
r = Cov(x,y) divide by Standard deviation of x * standard deviation of y

the more we age => muscles to get tired => will make ur hair loss.
the x and y are not covariated, but correlated

CoVariance will explain the causation
Correlation will explain the relationships

basically on preprocessing we use correlation which internally uses the covariance.

Scatter plot (correlation) - density plot (bell curve)

Brandon Foltz
- to understand the statistics - for doubts