for any kind of comparison between data
we use bar charts and column charts

for comparison over a period of time
or continous - line chart would be good.
(never ever go for line chart, if the data is not continuous (discrete) - or has no relationship)
(granularity is more like month, day, bar charts way of representing data is not good)

cyclic graph
spider web charts

Relation
how do we show relationships
ex: sales vs profits
(sales cant be always directly proportional to profits)
driving more sales, can be either way of increasing or getting profits than what is expected
(scatter plot) - relationship between two diff measures.
(to understand which product sales is doing good)

variation of scatter plot
(bringing quantity on the scatter plot)
(symbolically identified - size of the plot)
(bubble chart)
(scatter plot - include a third measure - parameter "Quantity" -> use bubble chart)

Proportion:
Pie Chart
percentage of total can be visualized by that.
entire percentage of total how each is proportioned.
*human eyes wont be able to catch very less difference, or with more and more pies with less percentage.
if thats the case, we need to avoid pie chart.

we can use Dot Chart
Donut is one variation of pie chart
Dial chart - on a single measure, how much percentage is reached from a goal (target)
(ex: 10000 steps per day, how much percentage is reached from goal)
Bullet chart - try to understand.
marketing sales among diff people, can be visualized with bullet chart
it tells how much expected, but how much reache - can be outweighed or below target

another visualization or variation of pie chart
breaking of that pie into a bar chart they call it a stacked 100% bar chart
all the bars will be of same height. (100%)
one will be stacked on top of another.
(can be used for comparing over a period of time with others, or to understand the proportion within each over a period of time)

limitation of stacked bar chart
wont be able to see the real value - since its changed to percentages.

so we now plot it against the real runs value and then internally have its proportions
(stacked bar chart)
can be extended as a stacked line chart called as - stacked area chart or stacked 100% area chart - over a period of time.

Distributions
Histogram is a good tool for visualization
on a single measure - count the number of customers
we distribute the amount into a range and distribute it with the number of customers on y-axis

if two variables - scatter plot.
diff between bar chart vs histogram
histogram uses x-axis is based on a range (binning)
bar chart is based on a discrete value not on a range.

Tableau (predictive and interactive)
BI tool

products
Tableau Desktop - create dashboards and send it across to customers or clients (window based tool, install this on windows)
(authoring tool) - this is a licensed product - 14 day trial product. - yearly subscription
can connect to a variety of databases. data sources are more
companies will use this setup. since its secure
student license for 1 year free. (per user its 70$)

Tableau Server - common piece where all our dashboards can be shared. Across diff teams to be used
(licensed, access via urls - hosted on your server)

Tableau public - Free version desktop
limitations are there, since its free
only csv's and excel - cant connect to a oracle database. data sources are less.
we cannot save our dashboard - workbook
we need to create a tableau cloud account to save our changes.

Tableau online
hosted in cloud. publish dashboards and share ur work with collaborators to explore hidden opportunities with the data visualizations. It can be accessed
on a browser or go with mobile apps.

Tableau reader - free version - shared between two people. Reader can use that for reading the same.
we can open and interact with data visualization built in tableau Desktop.
just a reader

Fact or dimension
qualitative information is called dimensions
quantitative information is called as Fact

in general data warehouse
place where all fact and dimentions is joined together by a unique id (kind of merge)
combined fact and dimensions table

