Notes

jupyter notebook is the IDE
one way of opening it is - via terminal - jupyter notebook

console - does not have interactive experience. It wont customize our way of writing code.
GUI - a themed place for customizing our way of writing code. kind of animated way.

jupyter notebook - opens a browser in localhost
which is a document structure. Its a console where in you write your console line by line programming.
we can present our code.
files gets saved as ipynb - i-python-note-book format.

what is kernel,
language in which the notebook is going to run.
we can run R, python2, frameworks as a kernal. Provided we install those kernels.
without kernel, we cant run the program.

spyder - save the notebook as py file
main diff is GUI (write the function as a whole)

to install modules - pip install "module_name"
or else use conda installation, give commands with "!"

! is used to run console based commands inside the cells in jupyter notebooks.

Google colab is for giving access for notebooks
for outside the world.

Ways to run python
1) IDE - pycharm, spyder, kite, colab, jupyter notebook, jupyterlabs
2) Immediate mode - cmd or terminal based
(use the prompt directly to run the code)
(to come out of python mode, use exit())
3) scripting mode - create a file with an extension .py and then run using python "xx.py"

In [x] - x is the order in which the cell is executed line by line.

comments - non executable readable statements
for single line comments in python - use #
for multi line its ''' '''

Keywords, Identifiers, Variables in python

keywords (special word) has a special purpose inside python. It unlocks some of process in python.
keywords are bold letters in green color (for denoting in IDE)
for non keywords - appear ordinary.

python libraries are available in the bin folder where we installed in python (use import to load the library)

Identifiers
User defined names to any variables (functions, temporary stuffs inside our notebook)
Variables - memory entities whose values will change during the course of the program execution.
place to store the data.

Identifier rules:
1) Cannot be keywords (keywords are reserved word)
2) do remember the errors which we get, which will help us in understand the problem
ex - SyntaxError - when we break the rules for writing a program in python
3) cannot start with a number
4) no space between them
5) no special characters (special chars are also reserved words) !, @, $, #, %
6) its case sensitive
7) variable is not defined comes as NameError

python2 - python3 - more mathematical operations have been added
more unicode support
print from keyword to a function
syntactical improvements
better exception handling

Data types
to process data we need to understand the data

types
string, integer, float, array, object
int - finite - countable whole numbers
float - numbers with decimal points
boolean - true or false
string

diff between freeware and free software
Free software - software that can be used, studied, modified without restrction and which can be copied, and redistributed in modified
or unmodified from either without restriction
freeware - anyone can download from internet and use for free. examples are skype or adobe acrobat
python is a free, open-source programming language for everyone to use.