Data warehousing

warehousing - is a collection of procured items or everything saved it into a godown or a place.
it will have all the product types (eg: departmental stores)

similarily where we save all the data is called as data warehouse (al retail information is saved)
like sales, marketing, invoices, demand etc. this wont get refreshed, its saved historically.
Built on top of relational databases. Rows & columns. Everything is relational in nature. - homogeneous (tabular data)

Data Lake - heterogeneous (non tabular data, like videos, images, etc)

Data to a specific category is called as DataMart. (there are users who only look out for sales reports).
(data created for a specific category). It can have multiple tables to target a particular category.
This can be refreshed, for eg: we expect last three years of sales data.
Understand its backup plan (HDFS), replication etc, data getting lost.

Qualitative information - Dimension

Quantitative information - can be aggregated. Called as a fact.

Schema (how i model the warehouse, how are they related to each other)

Star
In the data warehouse world, if a fact is surrounded by multiple dimensions and their relationships. - called as Star schema
Here we join the tables to get meaningfull information.

Snowflake

Types of Joins:

inner-join - intersection between two tables
select * from x innerjoin y on x.id == y.id
(join the records by a unique key). If no matching records - it will empty.
* will return the whole column data from both tables

left-join
select * from x leftjoin y on x.id == y.id
if matched records, combine both
if no matched records, the columns from left table (x) will come to the result and will put a null for the right column.

right-join
select * from x rightjoin y on x.id == y.id
if matched records, combine both
(reverse of left-join)

full-outer-join
all the records from both table will be there. if no matching record it puts either left or right as null.
combination of left+right join as a one join.

Live connection
live connection between our tableau to the data source. It will automatically fetch records.
Performance is slightly affected. Firing a query directly on the data source.

Extract based dashboards
tableau extracts the data and keep it as a application specific.
in cases like every one day, we will refresh the dashboard. We can have a scheduler to load the latest data from data source
performance of the dashboard is very good.

Filters
Data source filters
apply filter on the data source level itself.

data types can be changed as well on load.

understand blending and cardinality (relationships one-one, one-many, many-one)

now visualization part.

Create visualization
1) sheet - vizualization placeholder can hold only one chart. it cant have two charts
2) dashboard - collection of sheets
3) story - collection of dashboards.

Discrete - Blue
Continous - measures are in green in color
which can be aggregated.

for grouping in columns
arrange it in a order of parent-child
if not visualization not looking good. Because it doesnt group if child comes first before parent.

Start performance recording - will tell us where the time is taking
where we can see or visualize the queries given to the data source.

tooltip can have a visualization also. We can include another sheet as well. Which will have intelligence to merge or track records.

Detail - view not to change, but want to include that in the query alone - use this.

tableau pulls a gradient of colors for range of colors
when we put profit or sales on the detail pane.

trend line 
can be drawn for continous data - can be applied on the date
YOY sales or profits.

we can change the date to allow quarter wise, year wise

Aggregated filter - where - apply filters on the aggregated value
detailed filter - having

quick filter which we drag and drop on the filter pane

sort options available

Parameters

stacked bar charts
put the color as the sub type of the main type
we will get it

there is an option called DualAxis - 2 pills will become 1 pill together. To lines on top of each other.
We can use this for correlation.

to bring all meausre names and values
we can drag and drop the measure values and names for grouping




