Basics of statistics and probabilities

what and why is the questions asked for a data scientiest when given a problem
Analytics is a meaningful understanding of numbers
Statistics - purpose of inferring proportions in a whole from those in a representative sample. 
(mathematics taking and transforming numbers into useful info for decision makers.
(help us to understand the data or get info from the data)
(calculator for analytics)

Frequency - over the spread of time period, how is the datas property.
(Distribution)
if the data is interpretable, then we can decide on some business requirements
which is why we use statistics

To make better decision - use statistics for fool proof. 
Better sense of data (numbers) (right info about the data)

its used for various purposes

- for understanding the data
- draw conclusions about the large sets
- forecast about a business activity
- improving the business process.

Statistics is - interview question - one liner when asked
Collecting Data
Analyzing Data
Interpreting Data
Presenting Data

Types of statistics

Descriptive (presenting, organizing and summarizing data)
Inferential (process on a small piece of sample, and infer the larger dataset)

most of the cases we use descriptive statistics to start with inferential.

Census - population whole (elections, census)
Survey - a sample in a population - opinion polls

Descriptive measure done on a whole population - called as Parameter
Descriptive measure on a sample - called as Statistic
(formula differs hence there is a split)

Notations
Mean of population - we will get it


Variables
(numerical or categorical)

order based non numerical Quantitative - numeric values - discrete (everything we can count) and continous (everything we can measure it, including decimal points)
discrete - how many rupees u have in hand. its countable.

Qualitative - categorical (non numeric and has categories)
nominal - which doesnt have any patterns (eg names, employeeid, gender, religion, aadhar numbers - unique labels)
ordinal - which has a order non numeric values (eg - rank, mutual fund ratings, movie ratings)
- note - difference between the consective values are not always equal.

Variables - Dependent and independent

for eg: Y = a + bX
Y is dependent on the independent value of X
how many every variables the dependent variable depend upon.

Dependent variable on the y-axis and independent on x-axis
Linear regression ( basic method for prediction machine learning algorithm)

Summarizing Data (checklist to follow for summarizing data)
(understanding of the data as a whole)

Characteristics of Frequency distribution

1) histogram - continuous values in x
2) 
Symmetry
- equal amount of data on both sides of bell curve - called as symmetric
- not equal - asymmetric - two types -
positive or negative - skewed on the positive or negative

Central Tendency - representation is the central point of the distribution.
(Mean, Median, Mode)
Outlier - a very high value which disturbs the mean
if it has outlier use Median

Arrange the data in increasing order
find the mid-point n + 1 divide by 2 - agree

mode - most frequently occuring element in the data set
in the bell curve central point is the mode - if evenly distributed

there is a possibility of mean = median = mode in a symmetric curve

Modality
in a graph of symmetric - head is the mode
if one peak its unimodal
if two peaks its bimodal
can be more than 2 its polymodal

one more parameter is needed when mean, median or mode is not able to summarize data

called dispersion Methods
describes the data spread.

Range (max-min) - but its not consistency - time series

Variance (standard deviation)
 - deviation from mean. if we dont apply sqrt - its called variance.
(x - mean)2 divide by n. sqrt f the value is standard deviation

sqrt (sum(squares of difference) divide by n)

Mean Absolute Deviation

Interquartile




